What Alderwood teaches about women in church leadership 
In Short: 
Alderwood teaches that men and women are each invaluable partners in life and 
ministry, and that women should be equipped and empowered to serve in every area of 
church ministry, with one exception, which is the role of elder. Our position is that God 
has established the role of elder within the church to serve as the spiritual fathers of the 
church family, and that this one role is reserved for Biblically qualified men. When 
considering what roles, functions, and activities are appropriate for women, the question 
to ask is not, “What may a woman do?” But rather, “What may a non-elder do?” If 
something is available to non-elder men, then it should be available to women as well.  
 
At Alderwood, we do not expect everyone within our church family to agree completely 
on this issue. Our most strongly held beliefs and the beliefs that we require all members 
to hold can be found in our Essential Doctrine statement. Our position on women in 
church leadership, while important, is secondary to that, and we ask that our church 
family submit to it without causing division, while being free to personally hold differing 
convictions about what the Scriptures teach on this issue. For those in teaching and 
leadership roles, we require that they teach Alderwood’s position in good faith in 
whatever way they are representing Alderwood. 
The Long Version: 
The topic of women in church leadership is an issue on which there is a great level of 
disagreement today within the Church globally. The debate is often framed as being 
between two sides: complementarians and egalitarians. While these terms fail to 
adequately convey the variety of positions on this topic, they are helpful starting places 
for understanding the conversation. The complementarian position is generally 
understood to be that men and women are created equal in value and dignity, but that 
men and women are also created differently in a way that complements one another, 
and in light of this difference God has restricted certain roles of authority within the 
family and the church to Biblically qualified men. The egalitarian position can be 
described as believing that while men and women are different and do complement one 
another, those differences are not a basis for restricting women from any leadership role 
within the church and that the equality of men and women can only be fully expressed 
when women are allowed to exercise any role that men can exercise. Both of these 
positions can be held in good faith by followers of Jesus who believe in the authority of 
the Scriptures and both of these positions are within the bounds of Christian orthodoxy. 
One of the shortcomings of this debate is the way that these positions are often 
described as being opposites from one another, when in reality they actually share more 
in common than they hold in disagreement. Complementarian and egalitarian Christians 
agree whole heartedly in the equality of men and women before God, the spiritual 
giftedness of both men and women, the necessity of women using their gifts for the 
flourishing of the church, and the evil nature of misogyny and the mistreatment of 
women. At Alderwood, our position falls within the umbrella of a complementarian 
understanding of the Scriptures, but much of what we believe could be easily associated 
with egalitarian theology and we would also disagree with other complementarian 
churches who restrict the role of women in the church beyond what we think is 
supported by the Scriptures. Our allegiance is to the Lord Jesus and the Word of God, 
not to any one theological camp or denomination. 
Our position on women in church leadership arises from the following convictions on 
what the Bible teaches:  
• Male and female are intentionally created categories and are part of God’s good 
Creation. Human flourishing is dependent on accepting and living into this design. 
Questions related to gender should always be resolved by appealing to the 
Scriptures which reveal God’s will to us, and not by appealing to human desire or 
cultural pressure.  
• Men and women are created together in the image of God and are equal in value, 
dignity and standing before God. No distinction in role between men and women 
is made on the basis of value or superiority. While every individual is created in 
the image of God, the fullness of the way that humanity images God can only be 
seen in the partnership of male and female together.  
• Men and women are created distinct from each other, and their differences 
complement one another. In creating men and women differently, God also calls 
men and women to different roles in the family and the church. These different 
roles are a part of God’s good design and are not the result of sin, since we can 
see these differences reflected in Genesis 2 before sin enters the world.  
• After Genesis 2, God consistently calls men to fill the roles of the highest level of 
spiritual authority. The Levitical priesthood, the spiritual leaders in the temple 
system, are only male members of the tribe of Levi. God only appoints male kings 
of Israel. This pattern is confirmed in the New Testament. While Jesus had many 
female disciples, he called 12 men to form his inner circle that would eventually 
become the Apostles of the early church. The instructions to churches in the New 
Testament leaders also assume and instruct that elders of the local churches will 
be men. For the church today, the role of elder is the role of highest spiritual 
authority, and that role is restricted to Biblically qualified men as the spiritual 
fathers of the church family.  
• Despite these restrictions on roles, there are no gendered gifts of the Spirit, and 
the Spirit distributes all gifts freely to both men and women. Outside of the role 
and function of being an elder, women can and should freely exercise their gifts, 
including gifts of teaching and leadership, within the church for the purpose of 
edifying God’s people and building up the church. Women can and should teach 
the Scriptures, study theology, lead groups and ministries of all ages and both 
genders within the church. When considering whether a role, function, or activity 
within the church is open to women, the question shouldn’t be “Is a woman 
allowed to do this?” but rather, “Is a non-elder allowed do this?” If a non-elder 
man can fill a certain role, then a woman should be able to fill that role as well.   
• It is the role of both men and women to advocate for women to use their 
giftedness and their skills in church ministry. The church as a whole is hindered 
when any of our people are wrongly kept from fulfilling their unique function as a 
part of our body, and the roadblocks and hinderances that have unnecessarily 
kept women from leading and teaching in the church have only served to hurt the 
body as a whole. Tradition and structures that restrict women from using their 
gifts do not glorify Jesus and should be reformed wherever they are 
encountered.  
So, what does this mean for how Alderwood views women in church leadership? 
1. We strive to encourage women to grow as disciples of Jesus. 
Following Jesus, studying the Scriptures, learning theology, building community, 
discipling others, sharing the gospel, and serving one another are not things for only 
men to aspire to; they are things for men and women to aspire to together. 
Alderwood desires to build a church culture in which girls and women are 
consistently encouraged to pursue Jesus in every way, just as much as men.  
2. We seek to equip women to use their gifts in church ministry of all kinds. 
The church can only function to its highest capacity when all of us are using our gifts 
for the good of the body as a whole. Alderwood desires to build a church culture in 
which women with all kinds of giftedness are developed and trained to utilize those 
gifts for the kingdom. This means we champion not only women with gifts of 
hospitality, service, encouragement, but also women with gifts of teaching, 
leadership, and administration. 
3. We commit to empowering women and removing hindrances. 
Much of what has kept women from flourishing and using their gifts within the 
church has not been the theology of the church but has been the sin of sexism and 
discrimination that is the result of the Fall. As we partner with Jesus to seek a reality 
where God’s will is done on Earth as it is in Heaven, we commit to opposing and 
repenting of these sins wherever we encounter them.  
 
 
 
Appendix 1 - Interpretations of specific passages 
Genesis 2:20-23 The man gave names to all livestock and to the birds of the heavens 
and to every beast of the field. But for Adam there was not found a helper fit for him. 
21 So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and while he slept took one 
of his ribs and closed up its place with flesh. 22 And the rib that the Lord God had taken 
from the man he made into a woman and brought her to the man. 23 Then the man said,  
 
 
“This at last is bone of my bones  
and flesh of my flesh;  
 
 
she shall be called Woman,  
because she was taken out of Man.”  
One key question in the debate over the roles of men and women in church leadership 
today is if distinctions between the roles of men and women are the result of the curse 
of sin that has come after the Fall in Genesis 3, or whether they are a part of God’s very 
good design for Creation that was already present before the Fall. Several aspects of the 
Creation of Adam and Eve Genesis 2 lend credibility to the idea that distinction of role 
between men and women was present before the Fall. There is an ordering of Creation 
in which Adam is created first, placed in the garden to “work and keep it” (Genesis 2:15), 
given the command not to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and then 
afterwards Eve is created out of Adam’s side. The reason given for the Creation of the 
woman is that it is not good for man to be alone, and that Adam is in need of a “helper fit 
for him” (Genesis 2:18).  
Unfortunately, this word “helper” has often been used to describe the role of women as 
being beneath or subservient to men. This is not the case - the word “helper” in English is 
a translation of the Hebrew word “ezer” (pronounced to rhyme with “razor”). The word 
“ezer” is used to describe God more often than anyone else (Exodus 18:4; 
Deuteronomy 33:7, 26, 29; Psalm 33:20, etc.). In these contexts, it is clear that “ezer” 
does not mean some sort of helper of menial tasks or someone who is less valuable or 
capable than someone else, but rather someone who enables you to do something you 
are incapable of doing by yourself. While the role of the woman as an “ezer” is a role of 
equal partnership, dignity, and value - it is evident in this passage that there is a 
distinction of role between Adam and Eve. Adam is given the mission of caring for the 
garden and the instructions from God on how to go about that mission, but being 
incapable of accomplishing that mission alone, Eve is created as the necessary and 
indispensable helper to Adam. Applying this story in the modern world requires wisdom, 
but the idea that all distinctions between the roles and function of men and women are 
the result of the curse of sin should be rejected. 
1 Timothy 2:11-14 Let a woman learn quietly with all submissiveness. 12 I do not permit 
a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man; rather, she is to remain quiet. 
13 For Adam was formed first, then Eve; 14 and Adam was not deceived, but the woman 
was deceived and became a transgressor. 
 
Paul’s main concern in this passage is that women be allowed to learn alongside men and 
not be hindered in their growth as disciples of Jesus because of their sex. In vs. 12, Paul 
does issue a prohibition—specifically that women not “teach or exercise authority over a 
man.” Understanding exactly what Paul has in mind here and how broadly he intended 
this prohibition to be applied is a challenge. However, several things should be observed. 
First, Paul did not prohibit women from speaking in church generally when men were 
present, and in fact he assumed that women would be bringing prayers and words of 
prophecy for the church (1 Corinthians 11:5). Furthermore, Acts records Priscilla, a 
woman, teaching and discipling Apollos, a man, in a positive light in Acts 18:26. Finally, 
while some will want to dismiss this passage entirely from any modern conversation 
about women in church leadership due to the unique cultural expectations of the church 
Paul was speaking to, it should be noted that Paul gives his reasoning for this prohibition 
and he appeals to the order of Creation and the Fall, not to any cultural considerations. 
Whatever the principle is that Paul is applying, it is a principle that transcends individual 
cultures. Considering all these things, it is most likely that Paul is prohibiting women 
from performing the specific kind of authoritative teaching that is reserved for the elders 
of the church, which would include critiquing and rendering judgement on what was 
being taught to the community and publicly separating true and false doctrine. This was 
the job of the elders, and by extension not to be done by women. This view is bolstered 
by the fact that the other place in the New Testament that combines the ideas of 
authority and teaching is in the description of the job of the elders in 1 Timothy 5:17. 
 
1 Timothy 3:1-3 This saying is trustworthy: “If anyone aspires to be an overseer,, he 
desires a noble work.” 2 An overseer, therefore, must be above reproach, the husband of 
one wife, self-controlled, sensible, respectable, hospitable, able to teach, 3 not an 
excessive drinker, not a bully but gentle, not quarrelsome, not greedy. 
 
For many, this passage both begins and ends the debate about whether women can 
serve in the role of elder (or overseer, as in this passage). This is because in vs. 2, Paul 
says that the overseer must be the “husband of one wife.” Since husbands are men, it is 
implied that elders must be men. While this passage is certainly consistent with the 
position that the office of elder is restricted to Biblically qualified men, it should not be 
overly relied on to prove that point. This is because the phrase “husband of one wife” is 
emphasizing monogamous faithfulness in marriage, not necessarily gender. This issue can 
be seen clearly just several verses later, where one of the qualifications for the office of 
deacon is also to be a “husband of one wife” (1 Timothy 3:12), even though the office of 
deacon is open to women as can be seen in Paul’s reference to Phoebe as a “deaconess” 
in Romans 16:1 and likely female deacons are addressed in the very same chapter of 
1 Timothy 3 in vs. 11.  
Galatians 3:28-29 There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is 
no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. 29 And if you are Christ’s, then 
you are Abraham’s offspring, heirs according to promise.  
 
For many, these verses in Galatians serve as a foundation for the belief that there should 
be no distinctions of any kind made between men and women when it comes to roles 
and responsibilities within the church. Paul is speaking of the way that the gospel has 
torn down the dividing walls of the past that have so often caused bitterness, 
oppression, and enmity between people groups. Because Jesus has created a new family, 
those things no longer divide us. However, it is going too far to interpret this passage as 
teaching that these categories no longer exist or have any significance because of Jesus. 
The emphasis is on the ending of division and enmity, not on the erasure of the 
categories in full. The categories of male and female precede the Fall in Genesis 3 and 
are a part of God’s very good design for Creation. The diversity of ethnicity described in 
this passage (Jew and Greek) is a part of the New Heavens and New Earth described in 
Revelation 7:9. Paul is not arguing that these categories are now meaningless, only that 
the division and enmity between them has been healed by Christ’s death and 
resurrection.  
Ephesians 5:18-21  […] be filled with the Spirit, 19 addressing one another in psalms and 
hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, 
20 giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord 
Jesus Christ, 21 submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ.  
 
This passage is often brought into the discussion on women in church leadership 
because of vs. 21, where Paul encourages “submitting to one another out of reverence 
for Christ.” Often referred to as “mutual submission,” this teaching is often interpreted to 
mean that every Christian is called to submit to every other Christian in the same way. 
This would mean that while Paul encourages wives to submit to husbands and women 
(and men) to submit to the male elders within the church, it should be implied that the 
submission goes both directions in the same ways, so that there are no truly one-way 
authority/submission relationships within the church. This interpretation, however, 
doesn’t make sense of the very next verses Paul writes in Ephesians 5 and 6. Paul goes 
on to talk about three relationships that involve authority and submission. The first is the 
relationship between husband and wife, where Paul instructs wives to submit to 
husbands but issues no command for husbands to submit to wives (rather, they are 
instructed to love their wives self-sacrificially as Jesus loved and died for the church.) 
Then Paul goes on to instruct children to obey their parents, and bondservants/slaves to 
obey their masters. While many want to believe that Paul’s instructions in vs. 21 should 
lead us to imply that he believes husbands should submit to wives in the same way that 
wives submit to husbands, almost no one will apply that logic in the same way to Paul’s 
instructions to parents and children. It is obvious that in the family, children are called to 
submit to the authority of their parents and not the other way around. When Paul says, 
“submitting to one another”, he means that Christians are called to submit within the 
appropriate relationships where authority is rightly being exercised, not that everyone is 
called to submit to everyone.  
 
1 Corinthians 14:33b-35 As in all the churches of the saints, 34 the women should keep 
silent in the churches. For they are not permitted to speak, but should be in submission, 
as the Law also says. 35 If there is anything they desire to learn, let them ask their 
husbands at home. For it is shameful for a woman to speak in church.  
At face value, this passage is one of the most restrictive passages on women in the 
church in the entire Bible. It should be noted that almost no church, even among those 
who place the most restrictions on women, applies this passage literally and precludes 
women from speaking in any way when the church is gathered. And that is for good 
reason, because Paul gives us evidence within this same letter that he did not apply this 
teaching that way. Just three chapters earlier, Paul instructs women to wear head 
coverings while they are praying and prophesying within the church (1 Corinthians 11:5). 
While we may struggle with why Paul requires women to wear head coverings, it is at 
least apparent that Paul expects women to be praying and prophesying, which cannot be 
done while remaining silent. So, what does Paul intend to prohibit in these verses? 
 
Two possibilities are most likely. First, it is possible that Paul has in mind here the same 
sort of authoritative teaching that is assigned to elders within the church that he 
addresses in 1 Timothy 2:11-14 and which this paper explains in the section on that 
passage. Paul is prohibiting women from doing the job that only elders should be doing.  
Secondly, it is possible that Paul is not actually teaching that women should keep silent 
at all, but rather he is quoting something that the male leadership of the church in 
Corinth has written to him in a previous letter and then refuting it when he says to them 
in vs. 36, “Or was it from you that the word of God came? Or are you the only ones it 
has reached?” This rhetorical device of quoting from someone he disagrees with and 
then refuting it has been used earlier in this letter as many as three times (1 Corinthians 
6:12, 7:1, and 8:1) and it possible that is exactly what Paul is doing in chapter 11 as well, 
so that it is Paul’s opponents, not Paul, who is actually the one saying “the women should  
keep silent in the churches.” In either case, Paul’s other writings and his personal practice 
preclude the interpretation that Paul intends to communicate that women have no 
speaking roles in church gatherings.  
Appendix 2 - FAQ’s (What does this mean at Alderwood?) 
Is it permissible for a woman to teach to the corporate gathering on Sunday mornings? 
Yes, it is permissible for a woman to teach to the corporate gathering on Sunday 
mornings. While the elders exercise the role of guarding the doctrine of the church and 
ensuring that the teachings of the church are in line with our doctrine, they can and do 
delegate the weekly teaching to non-elders. Both men and women are gifted by the 
Spirit to teach, and both male and female non-elders can exercise that gift in the 
corporate gathering under the authority of the elders and with the elders’ approval.  
Is it permissible for a woman to lead a co-ed small group or Bible study? 
Yes, it is permissible for a woman to lead a co-ed small group or Bible study. Both male 
and female small group leaders and Bible study teachers must submit to the doctrine of 
the church and the authority of the elders. 
 
May a woman be elected to serve on the team of elders? 
No, a woman may not be elected to serve on the team of elders. The role of elder is 
reserved for Biblically qualified men.  
May a woman be given the title of “pastor”? 
Yes, a woman may be given the title of “pastor.” At Alderwood, pastors and elders are 
distinct roles and serve different functions. The elders hold the office of highest 
authority in the church and are responsible for guiding and guarding the life of the 
church. The title “pastor” at Alderwood refers to those in professional ministry who are 
using their gifts to minister to and shepherd the church under the authority of the elders. 
There is only one position at Alderwood that is both elder and pastor, and that is the 
position of lead pastor. There are three words used in the New Testament to describe 
different offices of church leadership. They are elder, overseer, and pastor. The terms 
elder (presbuteros in Greek) and overseer (episkopos in Greek) are likely synonymous, 
referring to the same thing, the office of highest authority in the church. Many also 
believe that the term pastor (poimēn in Greek) is synonymous and refers to the same 
office. However, the case for this is uncertain. The noun “poimēn” literally means 
“shepherd” and it is only used one time in the New Testament to refer to a church office. 
This is in Ephesians 4:11 where Paul describes the gifts God has given to the church. 
Nowhere in the New Testament is it explicitly taught that this term is the same as the 
term “elder.” Elders are commanded to shepherd, or pastor, the church (1 Peter 5:1-2), 
and therefore in a sense all elders must be pastors, but that does not mean that all 
pastors are also elders. While we respect churches who treat these terms as being one 
and the same, we also believe there is Biblical freedom to use them differently as we do 
at Alderwood.  
May a woman serve as the Lead Pastor of the church? 
No, a woman may not serve as the Lead Pastor of the church because the person in this 
role is both a pastor and an elder. Our position is that the role of elder is restricted to 
Biblically qualified men. 
Appendix 3 - Comparing Positions on Women in Leadership by Gerry Breshears and 
Debbie Todd 
The following chart is an attempt to show the similarities and differences of the 
positions in brief form. The statements are typical and certainly do not represent the 
views of everyone who might fall into the particular category. Adrian Warnock's 
summary is helpful. Authoritarian or patriarchal is a view to the right of these three can 
be summarized as "Women should always function under male authority and be in 
submission in the God-ordained authority structure that is central to Christian life." Bill 
Gothard and Doug Wilson typify this view. There is an unnamed view to the left of 
these three that can be summarized as "Women have been an oppressed group for too 
long. As Christians, we must follow the example of God in the Exodus and liberate 
oppressed people. We must make up for wrongs of the male dominated past. We must 
promote women over men at every opportunity." 
 
COMPARISON 
EGALITARIAN 
MUTUALIST 
MALE ELDER 
COMPLEMENTARIAN 
 
MALE LEADER 
COMPLEMENTARIAN 
 
Descriptive 
phrase 
 
Men and women 
are partners 
together 
everywhere in life. 
All ministries and 
offices of the 
church are equally 
open to all qualified 
men and women. 
Gender is not a 
relevant distinction 
for excluding a 
person from any 
office. 
 
Women are 
encouraged to 
minister in any office 
or ministry open to 
any other non-elder, 
assuming their 
qualifications and 
appropriate gifting. 
The office of elder is 
reserved for men. 
Women are 
encouraged to 
minister in multiple 
ministries, but they 
should not exercise 
any ministry that 
includes public 
teaching to the 
corporate body, 
teaching Bible to men 
or the exercising of 
authority over men in 
the church. 
Authority in 
Creation 
Genesis 1 & 2 
None. Fully equality 
at Creation. 
Equal in essence, 
partnership in work. 
Hints of male headship 
in complementary 
partnership of 
marriage. 
 
Equal in essence with 
ordered roles with 
male headship defined 
as a pattern of family 
life. 
 
 
 
COMPARISON 
EGALITARIAN 
MUTUALIST 
MALE ELDER 
COMPLEMENTARIAN 
 
MALE LEADER 
COMPLEMENTARIAN 
 
Effects of Fall 
Genesis 3 
Created illegitimate 
hierarchical system. 
Man becomes ruler 
because of sin. 
Woman’s desire is for 
oneness with her 
husband (cf. Gen. 
2:23-24). Husband’s 
rule instituted which 
lasts as long as it hurts 
to have babies. 
“Desire” and “rule” 
may be positive or 
negative. 
Painful distortion of 
the creation order. 
Woman’s desire is to 
overthrow God’s 
pattern of male 
headship. Men 
exercise legitimate 
authority in 
domineering way. 
Restoration in 
Christ 
Abolished hierarchy 
as redemption is 
achieved 
Christlike roles in 
ordered relationship. 
Proper creational role 
relationships restored. 
1 Cor. 11 
Shows women 
active in ministry in 
the local church but 
must use freedom 
in Christ properly. 
Shows women active 
in speaking ministry in 
the local church but 
must use freedom in 
Christ properly. Male 
headship is tied to 
Genesis 3. 
Shows pattern of male 
headship in creation. 
Women speaking is 
outside the assembly 
of the church. Male 
headship is tied to 
Genesis 1-2. 
1 Cor. 14 
Paul bans some 
kind of disruptive 
speech. 
Paul bans some kind 
of disruptive speech. 
Women are to be 
silent in the judging of 
prophecies, a role for 
elders only. 
Gal. 3:28 
Ethnic, economic 
and gender 
limitations are 
ended in Christ or 
Christ’s body. 
Ethnic, economic and 
gender limitations in 
being part of 
Abraham’s seed. 
No gender distinctions 
in being part of 
Abraham’s seed. 
1 Tim. 2:11-15 
Corrects a first 
century problem in 
Ephesus and is not 
universally 
normative. 
Limits women from 
eldership and the elder 
exclusive roles as 
defined by a local 
church. 
Limits women from 
teaching or having 
authority over men in 
the gatherings of the 
church. 
Biblical Offices 
All offices including 
senior pastor open 
to qualified women 
and men. 
Elder office and 
functions for qualified 
men only. Deacon 
office open to 
qualified women and 
men. 
Both elder and deacon 
offices closed to 
women. 
Gifts 
All gifts given apart 
from gender 
distinctions. 
All gifts given apart 
from gender 
distinctions. Used in 
biblically appropriate 
roles and offices. 
All gifts are given 
apart from gender 
distinctions. The gifted 
persons of Eph. 4:11 
are males only. 
 
COMPARISON 
EGALITARIAN 
MUTUALIST 
MALE ELDER 
COMPLEMENTARIAN 
 
MALE LEADER 
COMPLEMENTARIAN 
 
Ministry 
All ministries open 
to qualified women 
and men. 
All non-elder 
ministries open to 
qualified women and 
men. 
All ministries involving 
authority over or 
teaching men reserved 
for men. 
Some 
Proponents 
though there 
will be 
significant 
differences in 
the specific 
points above 
Millard Erickson 
Cynthia Westfall 
Gordon Fee 
Walt Kaiser 
Craig Keener 
Mimi Haddad 
Christians for 
Biblical Equality 
Tim & Kathy Keller 
Craig Blomberg 
Beth Moore 
Jen Wilkin 
Dan Jarrell 
Debbie Dodd 
Gerry Breshears 
Tom Schreiner 
Bruce Ware 
John Piper 
Marry Kassian 
Andreas & Margaret 
Kostenberger 
Council for Biblical 
Manhood and 
Womanhood 
 
Practical church questions to consider: Can women serve as ushers?  Communion 
servers? Committee chair? Small group Bible study leader? Prayer group leader? Can 
women participate in the morning service occasionally or regularly as preacher? Choir 
director? Worship leader? Scripture reader? Lead in congregational prayer? Should 
women be included in ministry and leadership committees? Can a woman be ordained? 
Licensed? Missionary church planter? The key point is why decisions about these areas 
are made. 
Bibliography 
E—Egalitarian Position 
ME—Male Elder Complementarian Position 
ML—Male Leader Complementarian Position 
 
 
Stan Gundry (ed.) Two Views on Women in Ministry is the best presentation of the 
three views. 
 
Steve & Celestia Tracy, Bill & Aida Spencer Marriage at the Crossroads 
InterVarsity Press, 2009 is a discussion of the related topic of marriage 
E 
Cynthia Westfall, Paul and Gender is a strong egalitarian presentation. The 
CBE book list is here: https://www.cbeinternational.org/blogs/15-
books-seekers-and-new-egalitarians 
 
 
Tidball, Derek & Dianne Tidball, The Message of Women: Creation, Grace and 
Gender, IVP Academic, 2013 
 
 
Pierce, Ronald, & Cynthia Long Westfall. Discovering Biblical Equality: Biblical, 
Theological, Cultural, and Practical Perspectives. Downer's Grove: InterVarsity 
Press, 2021. 
 
The definitive CBE collection of scholarly exegetical and interpretive essays treating 
the full range of biblical material relevant to the gender role issue in all of life, not 
just confined to ministry or the church. It is complementarian equivalent is the 
Piper/Grudem book. 
ME 
Craig Blomberg’s article in the Two View book is the best presentation of the male 
elder position. 
 
 
Kathy Keller, Jesus, Justice, and Gender Roles: A Case for Gender Roles in Ministry is 
a good short statement of the Male Elder position. 
 
John Dickson, Hearing Her Voice: A Biblical Invitation for Women to Preach makes 
this case from the Male Elder perspective. 
ML 
Andreas J. Köstenberger Women in the Church 3rd Edition is the best. Male Leader 
 
Piper, John and Wayne Grudem. Recovering Biblical Manhood and Womanhood: A 
Response to Evangelical Feminism. Revised Edition. Wheaton, IL: Crossway 
Books, 2021. 
 
The definitive CBMW collection of scholarly exegetical and interpretive essays 
treating the full range of biblical material relevant to the gender role issue in all of 
life, not just confined to ministry or the church. It introduces the term 
complementarian to include both male elder and male teacher positions as 
distinguished from the egalitarian position. It is the egalitarian equivalent is the 
Pierce/Groothuis book. 
 
